GBT Mapping Pipeline Version 1.2

These notes accompany the release of the GBT Mapping Pipeline.  A
summary of new features and bug fixes since the last release are
described below.

) A number of name changes have occurred with the aim of improving the
user experience.  The script names and file extensions are meant to be
more descriptive and intuitive.  The changes are:

   doImage       -> aipspy
   dbcon.py      -> load.py
   mapDefault.py -> image.py

In addition, the file extensions of calibrated spectra restructured
for AIPS input have been changed from “.sdf” to “.aips.fits”.

With this release the doImage, dbcon.py and mapDefault.py commands
still work, but will generate a warning message about the new names.
With the next release, the old names will be deprecated.
 
) Improved handing of a bad integration where the raw spectrum
contains all zeros.  Previously the pipeline generated a cryptic error
message.  Now the pipeline generates a descriptive warning and writes
NaNs to the output spectrum for that integration.

) Fixed the exposure time calculation for out of band
frequency-switched integrations.  The previous code always summed the
exposure times from the two FS switching states. With this update, if
the frequency bands do not overlap at all, we only count the exposure
time from the first state.

) Updated an image header keyword to allow image cubes to be read by
the CASA viewer.  The pipeline tweaks the AIPS image cubes by adding a
reference frame string to the end of the CTYPE3 value (which AIPS just
writes as "FREQ) so that it matches the VELREF keyword also written by
AIPS.  Previously the code was writing "FREQ-BAR" when it should have
been writing "FREQ-HEL".  BAR and HEL are equivalent (and when the
fixed "FREQ-HEL" is read in to CASA it ends up being labeled as
"BARY").

) Removed spaces from output file names.  This occurred when the
target name included whitespace.  AIPS does not handle spaces in
output file names well. This release should fix that problem.

) Updated the idlToSdfits channel limit from 16k to 32k to accommodate
larger VEGAS spectra.

) Now logging errors when the zenith opacity is not available in the
weather database.  Previously errors were not logged when the zenith
opacity could not be found because the observation date was too early.

) Improved map finding code by adding Track procedure scans to be
counted as reference scans

) Improved output names of images to include scan ranges.

) Fixed window, feed and polarization filtering parameters for VEGAS
data.

) Added summary message showing number of windows and feeds.  We now
list window numbers with frequencies and feed numbers contained in the
data.

) Added new utilities:

show_catalog.py -- prints out the current AIPS catalog.
zap_last.py -- removes the last AIPS catalog entry.

) Now checking all feed, window and polarization combinations to show
preview zenith opacity.

This should avoid a crash when the first feed/win/pol attempt is not
available.

) Bug fixed for shift in frequency-switched calibration.

Sometimes the pipeline would use the center frequency for the
reference data instead of the signal, depending on the order it was
written to the raw data file.  This update fixes that by only grabbing
the center frequency from the input FS signal spectrum for each
integration.

) Stopped writing out dbcon.fits.  This is an unnecessary intermediate
file for imaging.

) Fixed a bug where AIPS fails on a long input file names.

) Added an early warning when imaging on a machine other than
arcturus.

This prevents the mysterious no output scenario when running the
pipeline with imaging on a machine other than arcturus with a
different AIPS setup.  Before you would have to look into the log file
and hopefully see a useful AIPS error.

) Added scripts to fix image headers for when observing in galactic
coordinates

AIPS only produces images where the header is written with equatorial
coordinates.  If the original data was in galactic coordinates, the
header needs to be updated to be viewed properly in tools like the
casaviewer.  These scripts modify the CTYPE1 and CTYPE2 keywords to
have the correct galactic values.  The image itself is already correct
and unaffected by these updates.

) Added sdextract script as workaround for >32k chan data.

The idlSdfits format converter code can not handle data with more than
32k channels.  This sdextract script is a short term workaround that
allows the user to extract sub-spectra and/or smooth the calibrated
spectra and produce smaller input spectra for idlToSdfits.

) Make sky brightness correction (tsky) optional.

There is a new command line parameter --no-sky-brightness-correction
that allows the user to disable the sky brightness correction.

) Fixed a bug when computing the number of atmospheres for elevation
correction to zenith opacity.

This caused the corrected zenith opacity model to be a little off at
elevations >= 40 degrees.

) Added option to set smoothing kernel size at command line.

The pipeline still defaults to a boxcar reference spectrum smoothing
of 3 channels, but the user now has the option to override this
setting.  The option is called:

--smoothing-kernel-size

Any value <= 1 results in no smoothing.

)  Move beam scale out of ta* and apply to Tcals.

The beam scale factors are now multiplied by Tcal values from the
input file, before the calculation of Tsys.  Input Tcals are still
written to the output calibrated spectra tables.
